# Definitions (WIP)

- [Definitions (WIP)](#definitions-wip)
  - [Core Defintions](#core-defintions)
  - [Product Defintions](#product-defintions)
  - [Event Source Defintions](#event-source-defintions)
  - [Category Defintions](#category-defintions)

## Core Defintions

* Event Maturity Matrix - The Event Maturity Matrix is a framework for evaluating the maturity of different SaaS based applications and their ability to generate audit logs / events for the purpose of security monitoring and alerting.
* Product - A Product is a SaaS based service that generates audit logs / events. Products must contain to one or more event sources.
* Event Source - An Event Source is a API endpoint or audit log files that are exposed for collection or querying. Event sources must be related to one or more products.
* Event Category - A Category is a grouping of event types. Categories are used to group event types into logical groupings.
* Event Type - An Event Type is a specific type of event that's generated by an event source. Event types are used to describe the type of event that's generated by an event source.
* Event Attribute - An Attribute is a specific field or property that's associated with an event type. Attributes are used to describe the data that's associated with an event type.
* Core Data Defintions - Core Data Definitions are made up of the following:
  * Category
  * Event Type
  * Attribute
* Content Data Defintions - Content Data Definitions are made up of the following:
  * Product
  * Event Source

## Product Defintions

|Data Defintion|Schema|
|--------------|------|
|[product.template.yml](../product.template.yml)|[Schema](../schema/product.yml)|

* Collection - Each defined `Product` will have one or more collections. A collection is a series of values that describe the different ways that one could collect data from a product. For example, a collection could be a specific API endpoint or a specific log file.

## Event Source Defintions

|Data Defintion|Schema|
|--------------|------|
|[example.yml](../example.yml)|[Schema](../schema/event_source.yml)|

* licensing - Licensing within a event_source defintion is used to describe the licensing model of the event source. It's recommended to add comments about the licensing model of the event source from a security perspective.
* retention - Retention within a event_source defintion is used to describe the duration of log retention. Additionally, it's recommended to add comments about the retention of the event source from a security perspective.
* latency - Latency within a event_source defintion is used to describe the duration of latency of the event source. Additionally, it's recommended to add comments about the latency of the event source from a security perspective.
* mappings - Mappings within a event_source defintion describes the different ways that one could map a specific event type to a specific event source. Mappings are used to describe the different ways that one could collect data from a event source. Mappings are made up of the following:
  * category - The category of the event type being mapped.
  * event_type - The event type being mapped.
  * attributes - A map of internally defined attribute IDs to the provided examples field names. This is used to map the examples to the defined attributes.
  * examples - Examples are used to describe the different ways that one could collect data from a event source. Examples are made up of the following:
    * type - The type of example. Examples can be one of the following (but not limited to):
      * create
      * update
      * delete
      * modify
      * etc.
    * path - The relative path location of the example.
    * comments - Any additional comments about the example.

## Category Defintions

|Data Defintion|Schema|
|--------------|------|
|[categories.yml](../categories.yml)|[Schema](../schema/categories.yml)|

